WBBR radio and stations like it was a way for the small number of kingdom proclaimers
to reach millions in populated areas with the good news.
In an archived interview, Brother Robert Hatsfeld explains his privilege to have been part
of that historic method of preaching.
I was born in 1903 in Pittsburgh and Allegheny and been a very, very interesting lifetime
I've had down through these years.
The group that I was in in the neighborhood, the two of us decided we were going to go
to see radio operators on ships.
In order to get the license, we had to be able to send and receive telegraph messages.
And so the two of us came to New York and we went to the RCA school to learn telegraph.
When I was going to school and living on Manhattan, I was going to the meetings, was only
one meeting at that time for all the brothers throughout the home metropolitan area, inside
and outside the city, in a rented hall in the Masonic Temple that's still down here
in Lafayette Avenue.
It was a New York church of international Bible students and when I told the brothers
that I was figuring on going to see as a telegraph operator, they said, well, why go to see,
we have a radio station.
Then a little later, I came over to Bethel here to see what it was all about and one of
the brothers, for its secretaries, brother Haslet came out and interviewed me and I was
told that I should finish the course, get my license and then come over.
So that's how I got the Bethel.
I got my license in December, came to Bethel and got involved in any kind of electrical
work, anything at all and operating the radio transmitter.
The Rutherford had broadcast in Philadelphia from the Opera House about 1921 and he and
other elders decided that this was Jehovah's Provision, radio, was Jehovah's Provision
to get this truth spread out.
There was no way for a couple hundred witnesses to witness to the millions and millions of
people in the metropolitan area, get along the world.
So they decided that since you couldn't go out and buy a radio station, we'll build one.
And they got together and they bought a wilderness out Staten Island that needed to be cleaned
out, all the brush cleaned out, land leveled off and we're going to build a radio station.
So they built a big house, really big house, that can prove to be very useful down through
the years.
So they built another smaller building alongside of the house, had the radio transmitter in
the one end of it and then the studio in the same building in the spring of 1924.
The first program was put on.
The programs were made up by using all the things that the society published were used
in some kind of a program.
We had all kinds of programs.
We had to put on some music and we had real good music and we had the seven piece orchestra
would play on a everyday program and then we had the augmented orchestra of brothers
coming out from Bethel and playing over the weekend.
We had bought a used transmitter 500 watts to get started and that was enough of power
with that single wire antenna that in the early days that was heard all over a very, very
large area because there wasn't many stations and there wasn't much electrical interference.
But then this first transmitter was replaced in 1927 by a brand new Western electric transmitter
of a thousand watts.
That made a considerable increase in our territory that we were covering.
With very little interference, people would sit down with their phones and try to receive
distant programs and pay attention when they heard something good that they were interested
and they really paid attention because there wasn't a whole lot of other things to distract
them and take them away from it.
That was an evening's entertainment to sit down and listen to the radio.
The commercial programs, of course, were, some of them were interesting but the Bible
message appealed to a lot of people in those days.
This message was a life-giving message that we had, it was a matter of life and death
really and we know that without your whole self, nothing would have happened.
So it worked out very well right from the beginning that we were broadcasting the message
of the kingdom over the radio.
Brother Hatsfeld served at Bethel for almost 75 years before finishing his earthly course
in 2001 at the age of 98.